# Cheating

## vectors for cheaters

- stealing an extra exam would enable somebody to claim a unique ID that was actually in the database, then forge a receipt using a scanner/printer or by buying a duplicate stamp.  They could claim that the candidate form, exam book, and answer sheet had all been lost by the invigilators (even though separate individuals handled the candidate forms and answer sheets, at two separate timepoints at the start and at the end of the exam).  Therefore, the only evidence the student has is the receipt; for the examiner's part, there is only evidence of the unaccountable absence of an exam.  In this case, a unique ink could be used that responded to a certain chemical test.  For example: the ink of the exam should be based on toner, and would not run when water is introduced; The ink of the stamp would run.  If the forged receipt were based on a scanned copy, then it's likely both exam and stamp inks would be produced by the same printer, and so they would not behave properly.  If a student went the extra mile to put real ink onto the original exam sheet, then perhaps security ink could have a unique and unpredictable response to a certain chemical test.  Every absence of evidence would constitute a negligence or omission on the invigilators' behalf, but proof positive of a receipt forgery is a crime of commission, and this would clearly constitute academic misconduct.  The ink could also be a distinctive color that is a custom RGB combination (that would be difficult to forge).
