# Test-Maker: Exam Process

This document collects some best practices for administering an exam.  Some of these steps are fairly specific to the university where these practices were developed, so you should ignore anything that isn't relevant to your situation.

## Setup

When preparing for an Exam, it is usually worth it to set things up carefully.

### Roles

Since exams are typically administered by multiple teaching assistants, it can be helpful to distribute responsibilities amongs them.  The following roles specify a separation of responsibilities that makes it easier for people to know what their tasks are.  When everybody knows how to manage themselves, things usually run smoother.

- **Checker**: collect the candidate forms and put them directly into a "candidate forms" envelope.  The Checker is not the same person as the Collector, because the checker creates one kind of receipt and the collector creates a different kind. The Checker waits until 30 minutes into the exam and then they ask the class if anybody still has their candidate forms. When all have been collected, the checker tells the class the envelope is being sealed, and then the envelope is sealed. Any extra candidate forms need to be logged directly on the envelope, or else it will not count because they are not physically inside the envelope.
- **Collector**: one person collects exams from students, ensures the version is written on the answer sheet, stamps the receipt and gives it to the student, and passes the collected materials to the counter.  Basically, they are in charge of the stamp and ink, and they are responsible for making the exam receipts.
- **Counter**: one person sorts the exams by version into separate piles, then keeps a tally of how many exams are in each pile.  They are responsible for the final counts of each exam version.  The tally needs to be written on a separate piece of paper (maybe generate this as a standard exam thing)

### Materials

- exam question books based on your exam PDFs generated by Test-Maker
- blank scantron envelope and checkin/checkout count
- testing services exam processing paperwork
- scannable answer keys for testing services
- binder clips or rubber bands for each test version
- a big envelope for answer sheets that will be dropped off at testing services
- time remaining displayed with http://www.online-stopwatch.com/
- exam versions tally sheet (optional)
- candidate/signature forms envelope (optional)
- receipt stamp (optional)

## Rules

When administering the exam to students, there are a few rules that help to ensure things operate smoothly.

### before finding a seat, students must:

- turn cellphones off and store them in bags
- place bags at the front of the room
- have student ID ready to show
- keep the exam book closed until the exam begins

### before the exam begins, students may:

- fill out the candidate/signature form before the exam begins
- write name on the answer sheet and fill in the name bubbles before the exam begins
- write student ID on the answer sheet and fill in the bubbles before the exam begins

### once the exam begins, students must:

- turn to the first page of the exam and write name and student ID in the fields provided
- look at the exam version and write it on the top-right corner of the answer sheet (where the corner has been chopped off)

## audit checklist

There are a few procedural checks that can help to avoid administrative errors.

- each student ID has a candidate form
- each student ID has an exam book
- each student ID has an answer sheet
- each student ID has an exam ID
- each exam ID has a candidate form
- each exam ID has an exam book
- each exam ID has a stamped exam receipt
- each exam ID must match an ID from the pre-generated database
- each exam ID must be unique
- the blank scantron envelope should contain the correct number of blanks
- the candidate form envelope should contain as many forms as the scantron envelope is missing
- the number of answer sheets should be equal to the number of candidate forms
